content/docs/programming_languages/_index.md, before:

+++
title = 'Programming Languages'
date = 2024-12-19T19:05:15+05:30
draft = false
description = 'Information on programming languages'
+++

# Languages

{{< files-list >}}

# Programming languages features

## Structured Language

A programming language can be called as structured language if there is compartmentalization of code and data.[^4]

Example: `C`

## Block strucutured lanugage

Block strucured lanuage permit procedures or functions to be declared inside other functions or procedures.[^4]

Example: `ALGOL`, `Pascal`, `Javascript` and `Swift`

## Reflection

"Reflection in computing is the ability of a program to examine its own structure, particularly through types; it’s a form of metaprogramming."[1]

Languages support reflection (not a exaustive list)

1. Go [^1]
2. Java
3. Javascript [^2][^3]
4. Python
5. .Net

# References

[^1]:[The Laws of Reflection - The Go Programming Language](https://go.dev/blog/laws-of-reflection)
[^2]:[ES6 Reflection in Depth](https://ponyfoo.com/articles/es6-reflection-in-depth)
[^3]:[Reflect - JavaScript | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Reflect)
[^4]:[C: The Complete Reference]()

Commit message:

add conceptualized memory map in programs
Signed-off-by: Jasti Sri Radhe Shyam <samabhasatejsrs@outlook.com>

content/docs/programming_languages/_index.md, after:

+++
title = 'Programming Languages'
date = 2024-12-19T19:05:15+05:30
draft = false
description = 'Information on programming languages'
+++

# Languages

{{< files-list >}}

# Programming languages features

## Structured Language

A programming language can be called as structured language if there is compartmentalization of code and data.[^4]

Example: `C`

## Block strucutured lanugage

Block strucured lanuage permit procedures or functions to be declared inside other functions or procedures.[^4]

Example: `ALGOL`, `Pascal`, `Javascript` and `Swift`

## Reflection

"Reflection in computing is the ability of a program to examine its own structure, particularly through types; it’s a form of metaprogramming."[1]

Languages support reflection (not a exaustive list)

1. Go [^1]
2. Java
3. Javascript [^2][^3]
4. Python
5. .Net

# Programming conceptual memory mapping [^4]

- Program code (object code in case of compiled)
- Global variables
- Stack
    - It holds retrun addresses of function calls, arguments to functions, local variables, also current state of CPU, etc.
- Heap
    - region where dynamic allocation is preformed at run time.

# References

[^1]:[The Laws of Reflection - The Go Programming Language](https://go.dev/blog/laws-of-reflection)
[^2]:[ES6 Reflection in Depth](https://ponyfoo.com/articles/es6-reflection-in-depth)
[^3]:[Reflect - JavaScript | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Reflect)
[^4]:[C: The Complete Reference]()
